---
title: "Welcome to Software Carpentry"
teaching: 0
exercises: 0
questions: ""
objectives: ""
keypoints: ""
---

This workshop will introduce you to some of the programs used everyday in
computational _workflows_ in diverse fields:  microbiology, psychology,
statistics, neuroscience, genetics, economics, and many others.

A workflow is a set of steps to read data, analyze it, and produce numerical
and graphical results to support an assertion or hypothesis encapsulated into
a set of computer files that can be run from scratch on the same data to obtain
the same results.  This is highly desirable in situations where substantially
the same work is done repeatedly -- think of processing data from an annual
survey, or results from a high-throughput sequencer on a new sample.  It is
also desirable for _reproducibility_, which enables other people to look at
what you did and produce the same results.  It is increasingly common for
people to publish both articles and the computer code that generated the
results discussed within them.

The programs to be introduced are

R and RStudio, a statistical analysis and data management program and a
graphical interface to it.

Git, which is a program to help you keep track of changes to your programs
over time.

Github, which is a web application for sharing your programs and working on
them with others easier.  It can also be used to generate a citable reference
to your computer code.

The Bash shell (command line), which is extremely useful for managing both
data and program files and chaining together discrete steps in your workflow
(automation).

We will not try to make you expert or even proficient with any of them, but we
hope to demonstrate the basics of controlling your code, automating your
work, and creating reproducible programs and to provide you with some
fundamentals from which you can incorporate these methods in your own work.

At the end, we provide links to resources you can use to learn about these
topics in more depth than this workshop can provide.

